yeah hi I'm Martin BC I work for the
Athenian foundation I do research I'm
working on doing a lot with the Athenian
Virtual Machine right now I'm wandering
github today I'm gonna talk about like
really a dag of ideas because they're
not ordered indeed they're partially
ordered ok so yeah what would it look
like to have an employee in the
interplanetary operating system we have
you know file systems I mean why not
and this also intersects a lot with the
work I'm doing and yeah I think it's
really cool so let's start with um
here's word here's where we're at today
yeah like we can you know mount a ipfs
hash um and we can at the root directory
and we get you can CD into any hash and
then below that are all the files and
that's pretty cool
so next step is obviously running
binaries for my mounted uh you know
folder so I should be able to like to
add my bin directory and you CD into the
hash and run a program now this doesn't
quite work right now I think that maybe
due to the limitation here's a fuse but
you can't actually make a program
executable but you know that I'm sure
it's just a detail so the next thing
we'd like to be able to do is write
files we can't do this yet as far as I
know maybe I don't know you all figured
it out but writing is a little bit more
complicated so b-but it's pretty
important for operating systems to be
able to write files but it doesn't quite
fit into the way that the IPF s
currently mounts files faint so you
mount the root directory you have
passions directories and then all the
other files so you don't if you change a
file and when the directory obviously
you're generating a new root hash so
where does that hash so there has to be
a slightly different topology
so maybe one way to do it would be to
mount individual files or individual
hashes so for example maybe I could
mount a hash totally to my music folder
and that would contain like all my music
and that I could CD into it download
some music and but we still we have a
new hash there we have a new root
fashion as we changed it so we need you
know some utilities UNIX and Linux has
you know work directory this is actually
lisatime implemented in your shell it's
not implemented as a user space program
necessarily but it's always built off
you know POSIX C functions get current
working directory or get present
directory so ideally we'd have maybe
something like print working hash
working directory hash you know to get
the current rip hash and there needs to
be some sort of something equivalent to
a POSIX C function where we can build
user space programs to do this now it
doesn't have to be positive q s--
function and it could be RPC calls or
something but we need some layer where
we can be build user space utils like
that I think and we should also be able
to do the same with IP and s so like if
I mount an IP and s directory this is
this is I think really cool like if I if
I have just a public key I can mount it
and get all updates so I can like I
could mock Moxa's music file to my music
directory and get all the new music got
all the new music piles he puts in there
but if I have the private key that
should mount as not only readable but
writable and then whenever I write to
that directory or change it the new
state root gets polished so anything we
should be able to have like fine-grained
controls over sharing sub graphs like I
should be able to see
in CD into my music folder create a new
idea nest link to it so that creates a
new new private-public keep here and I
can give that hash out to someone I
should be able to do it again so great
one I should be able to create another
one I should be able to list out the
different links I have to a particular
folder and lastly I should be able to
revoke them and remove those links and
this this enables me to have fine-tuned
control over to who has read permissions
to what folders and I think of it in
terms of capabilities I don't know if
you want familiar with capabilities
systems but ok cool one person q3 that's
pretty good but eh I P nestling cuz the
read capability and after you revoke it
obviously the person still has can
always read the last hash that was
published to it but they won't get any
further updates
so yeah multiple IPS identities would be
like super awesome and being able to
bind them to folders so one thing be
cool would be like have link all my
friends music together in a local folder
you know like I linked this IP NS hash
to a friend slash Fred we could have all
my pens music and a whole data I like
music so I think it's cool and the
operating system so ipfs doesn't
traverse through IP nestlings because
that's mutable but OS system layer
should be able to traverse through IP
pass links on IP NS links and any other
kind of links that we throw at it not
just merkel links we also need to be
able tap that so this gets into the
point we need flexible link handlers so
let's say we have a scenario where the
music folder is shared on ipfs but we
have a subfolder that we don't want to
share so we need a way to accommodate
that so maybe what gets hashed into the
music folder is a just some symbolic
reference to this thing here but not the
merkel link so as I said this is an
unordered speech it's a dag so I'm going
to switch gears I'm doing a lot of work
with web symbol right now um and I want
to talk about one second
what assembly is a new portable size and
load time efficient binary format the
aims to execute at native of speed by
taking advantage of common hardware
capabilities across a wide range of
platforms I think it's really awesome
the key takeaways are fast efficient
it's secure sandboxed has tool chain
code capability it means it works with
LLVM so you can you can pile with LLVM
you should be able to run in a web
assembly virtual machine so out of the
box you know c c++ rust all those things
work and it's extensible it's easy to
plug it into other systems it's easy to
embed and it has the combined powers of
the web so yeah it's being standardized
by Google Microsoft Mozilla Apple so
that's yeah all the big players in the
history of it it came out of something
those are in 2012 called the extensible
web manifesto and the problem that the
web head was in syllabus on some set is
whenever adds a new API that expands the
surface area that needs to be secured so
by instead of having a large surface
area if you build small primitives and
then you can build your new features and
these low-level primitives
so yeah another thing would reduce the
regrowth of complexity and therefore
bugs and implementations and allow
browsers and vendors iterate on
libraries before publishing high-level
api's right
and in this hiriam all these things are
also applicable to block chains actually
even more so all right so like what we
face today is we have a really large
trusted computing bit so we have a
virtual machine we have all these pre
compiles and we have like state rules
the state rules are like how we update
the state like moving balances from one
count to that no there and I would say
it's even getting worse because we have
more three compiles coming down the line
and every time we add a pretty compile
we have extended expanded trust a
competing base and it's super super
important and blockchain that's like
every implementation implements it
correctly if you don't you break
consensus so it's even more important
than in the browser environment so a big
trusted computing base is really really
bad symmetric computation platforms and
that symmetric computation is the basis
for flies and I know all blockchain base
consensus so instead of building things
out we should start with a very small
trusted community base and have a VM
bedrock and then build everything in it
I think we should think about the state
rules more in terms of a kernel since
ultimately they deal with inter process
communication between contracts it
really is a kernel and then like all the
pre-compiled
should just be user space per contracts
like any other an unprivileged contract
and this is
I'm experimenting with some of these
ideas in you awesome colonel today and
part of the II wasn't project so now to
jump back we have an IP LD as one talked
about earlier translators and I'm super
excited when he said that the they were
thinking about using okay because
that's what I'm talking about - so a
translator so there's a little bit of
historical context - translators and I
think or and I think I filled the
matches closely to what translators are
translators in plan nine and heard I
don't know if anyone knows would anyone
know what plan nine and heard it her all
right okay whew yay so their operating
systems plan nine was developed as sort
of to be the successor to Linux or UNIX
and didn't really take off ground for a
number reasons mmm one of them was
license plates in sync and heard is also
along the same lines it's been its
operating system that Richard Stallman's
been developing since like forever so
anyways a translator is assumed as a
program that acts as an object server
and participates in herds distributed
file system and basically what it does
is take some said data it goes to the
translator and exports a common file
system interface and something like ipfs
alright i PL d you take in some data you
put it through a resolve work but our
translator here and you come out with a
common vertex so another way to put it
is this is also copied out of herds
manual channel they're just translates
from one representation of data
structure into another representation so
pretty straightforward so yeah if you
wrote IP LD translators and wasum you
don't have to implement one translator
for all and
tations translators themselves can be
resolved by IPS which means less
dependence on implementations and more
modularity overall which is great stuff
and you could implement it these things
could be implemented in user space
ideally if there was just a common you
know API so one one thing we do with
chance letters that come office has been
working on it's super cool and I'll tell
you why are you sleeping with other
blockchains is importing the block chain
into IMS so like here's this isn't
actually the structure of what aetherium
looks like totally I left a lot of stuff
but this is an example of what it look
like you have block the top level on the
counts and you have all your different
account addresses and then in side
account a nonce of balance and storage
and decided storage you have all these
different keys so we have these we have
this file structure now what if etherium
contracts were just programs in a
general-purpose OS backed by a content
addressable filesystem a sort of a
mouthful but like very cool I think so
what do we want from you space use your
space well we want to we know we need to
run symmetric computations so I'm
starting from atheneum trying work
backwards what we want we have a theorem
we have content restful filesystem so
let's try work backwards we want we know
we needs much a computation needs to be
deterministic by default it needs to be
sandboxed right and we want to I would
like I think it's gonna be important
that we can reuse legacy programs
written in C++ and it also needs to be a
fairly simple and well specified these
are several of these things are covered
by default by what wasum does
but we need a we need a communication
layer so we can't just use Linux
straight because it's very complicated
there's lots of details we don't care
about a displayer it's not completely
deterministic it's not sandbox by
default though there's some interesting
work going on with subgraph and huge OS
with regards to sandbox
okay so jumping a little bit again and
we're gonna come back it will make sense
actor model actor model is really cool
actors are these little programs run and
they get messages in their mailbox and
then when they get the messages in the
mailbox they respond and process the
message and they can spin up other
actors and they can send messages other
actors via channels all right
so I think that each contract or program
is an actor or server running in a
microkernel framework all right
and the reason actor your model is
really nice in this environment is
because each actor is a natural split a
spot to build the sandbox around so
really quick by graphs this is sort of
my bedrock that I think of everything in
so actors and the channels they
communicate through would be the hyper
graph on the Left which is a link graph
and the Merkle dag structure is a place
graph represented by this forest here so
it's not really important that you need
to know this but like there's a solid
mathematical framework underlining this
and I think it's good to have sort of a
bedrock reality or bedrock model reality
is so that you need which you can use to
describe higher level features so
here yeah the forest or place graph it's
the Merc old egg and the hyper graph is
the communication lines between programs
so for example we saw earlier that a big
graph of cerium mapped into a folder or
a bag structure here's it sort of
graphed in a hyper graph so blocks at
top and you know all your accounts and
then you have one account here and maybe
your TX's and let's say like the account
code wants to figure out the current
block hash or the block number black
difficulty it may want to talk directly
to the block so it may open a channel to
the block so it's the bag structure and
the actor channel in one graph micro
curls microkernels have a long history
there's lots of them out there but so
what they are if you're not familiar
with them it's just a very minimal
amount of software needed to provide a
or to implement an operating system so
the microkernel and that we're working
on or thinking about is just providing
inter process communication between our
actors which are out there any open
contracts so here's where we are today
we have a like all these things squished
together into one protocol one software
stack consensus contract IPC networking
sort of big mall mud scary here's where
I think we should be moving so at the
bottom we have a file system networking
could be provided by after you have s
and the btp on top of that we have a
microkernel HR programs and contracts
exist in if from that we can build
consensus protocols such as aetherium
and you know as the ecosystems grows and
progresses this is not fixed we can move
move more and more into the microkernel
layers and more and more can just become
like user space programs so yeah
modularity is really important Conway's
law the organization was designed
systems are constrained to produce
designs which are copies of
communication structures of these
organizations basically if you hire
seven teams to design a compiler you're
gonna come up with a compiler with seven
different modules or seven different
steps so as in a system systems have to
I think be modular for them to evolve
because that's how like humans program
and work to get there so I think it's
really really important to break things
off into modules so vertices yeah
vertices are programs you know Linux has
the saying everything is a file
and our IP OS everything is a vertex
okay and to borrow from plan nine again
you know they just have servers that the
just a user space program can implement
a file server and one possibility to use
these servers for is to synthesize
vertices or files on demand perhaps
based on the information on the data
structure inside the kernel itself so
you have maybe a dag and you would have
a agent are after and it could
synthesize a further dag depending on
this positioning tree etc
so it'd be nice to do stuff like that
everything is a file
so I wanted to make a small note that
vertexes are a little bit different than
files because a vertex has a value and
it has edges and if we say vertex is
also a program that value is code those
edges are ports oh shoot
so an actor terminology ports are what
actors used to talk to other actors
through so we need a system API and it
should be super simple and needs to be
easy to specify like everything you need
to have a very small trust to the
computing base here and there's only
really two things we need to do we need
to interact with the ports send messages
and whatnot so set and get ports send
messages whatnot and we need to store
and retrieve values from the file system
which is the Merkle deck here so also so
I'm sorry this is sort of when I'm
playing with also with Evo's internal
seeing a small of API we can get it down
to and we need the core of it's really
interprocess communication so channels
are lines of communication ports are the
internal name for that channel for each
program has ports can be duplex read
only read-only ports are cap
capabilities well they actually have two
capabilities to read capability right
capability those capabilities are dealt
a table so you can send them to another
after so which means you can send ports
around which is pretty cool so that's
actually how back in my early example
where the contract talks to the block
to establish that actually you'd have to
send a read capability down to the
Merkel deck hierarchy till it gets to
the actor and so also by the way a
Merkel link is read-only capability if
you want to know more about capabilities
you can see capital or calm and he
writes out or so messages here are we
need atomic messages and non-atomic
messages unfortunately we have to
support atomic messages right now
non-atomic and the message is the
theorem doesn't have any notion of
non-atomic nations at the moment but it
will never believe rise if we ever have
charting when we have charting or is
needed for any type of scalability
really messages are unforgeable they
have a from in a to that set by the
operating system and they have a mutable
payload the that's what I'm using for
messages right now super simple and
where did I think this is all guy link
is like we're you you you've all seen
the moral Allah grass right where
computation is like doubling or not
computation speed we all know Moore's
laws sort of like ended but we're we
still see you know this exponential
growth in technology and we still see a
really good growth of computing power
per watt right so it's we're doing more
computing rather for less energy and and
I think the net result of this is going
to be that we push our computation out
to the edges or instead of having it in
big data centers we're gonna have well
Internet of Things but more and more and
more
we'll just see computation happening all
around us this is called ubiquitous
system
well it was called ubiquitous systems
but now it's called Internet of Things I
guess there's something like that so
Robin Miller would talk about this and
with the 90s you said such your system
or its component agents will be
self-aware possess beliefs about their
environment possess goals enter into and
chief goals and be able to adapt and to
change circumstances without human
intervention
so computations are made to appear
anywhere and at anytime and everywhere
so you know they're omnipresent they
were pushing computation to the edges
and I think the the way that we're going
to interface with these ubiquitous
systems is through a homogeneous
operating system not necessarily a
singleton alright and a content
addressable filesystem really lays the
groundwork for that because you don't
need a central server you can have a lot
of edge nodes to be able to retrieve
your data right and from that you can
build yeah an operating system so I
think this will look a lot like my web
browser with a lot of tabs open web
browsers actually do quite a bit of this
right they they have sandbox processes
they have inter process communication so
web workers our agents their model
author the asian model so or sorry actor
model and the web is you know it's
mobile code and so I think I think
there's nexus between where web connects
web technologies taking us in
decentralized technology is taking us
and I think it's really important to
work along with web technology and the
huge massive web community that we have
so how to get there be practical over
perfect like you can stare at this
there's a lot of theory right you can
stare at this theory and all day long
for me I think in for a lot of people
just like writing stuff figuring out
what happens in the world world and then
feeding back and looking at the theory
and moving forwards it's the best way to
go so don't worry about being perfect
just try to be practical and it embraces
iteration everything is a prototype like
don't get caught up and building the big
final shiny thing it's just one
iteration keep it mom on trailer and
follow the UNIX philosophy right really
quick note playing 9 was awesome but
Linux really got one thing right
modularity and so pi9 how all these cool
things about it but it turns out what
really matters is modularity
and Linux was the first one to get that
Molitor Larry D down and that's I think
one reasons like nothing has been able
to beat it lastly be your own core devs
like write your own code if you see a
need it's your job to fix it so yeah
that's all I have to say
[Applause]